<pre>
  BIP: 2
  Title: Modify Block Subsidy Maturity
  Status: Draft
  Type: Standards Track
  Created: 2014-05-15
</pre>

==Why do we need to wait longer to be able to spend from coinbase transactions?==

A blockchain is in actuality a superimposition of the main chain and its forking chains, which are considered invalid orphans. For instance, if a transaction is included in one fork, if can usually also be included in the other fork, so short reorganizations are subsequently not very consequential. Forks are normally not very long, however we need to consider the cases in which they are. For example, let's say we have chain A which is 70 blocks long and a malicious chain B which is 80 blocks longer. Most of the network is only chain A, but a colluding group of attackers who wishes to double spend in on chain B. The current coinbase maturity for Monero is 60 blocks. In chain A, persons who mined blocks 1-10 are free to spend their coinbases in blocks 61-70 and do so in these blocks.

Now, chain B is dumped onto the network by the attackers and becomes the valid chain. The persons who spent their coinbases from blocks 1-10 in blocks 61-70 (within chain A) have also now involuntarily participated in double spends. The vast majority of the transactions from chain A can be included in subsequent blocks in chain B, preventing double spends; however, because the inputs for the transactions spending the coinbases from blocks 1-10 in chain A no longer exist, it has become impossible to incorporate these into chain B. While it's likely the attackers only intended to double spend their own funds, because of the short coinbase maturity, they've also caused miners in chain A to involuntarily double spend, exacerbating the severity of the attack.

==Proposed modification==

Coinbase maturity is altered to be 1440 blocks.

==Implementation==

After acceptance of this MIP, it will be mandated that in 20160 blocks (about two weeks) coinbase maturation is modified from 60 blocks to 1440 blocks (1 day).
